# Minor-Project_InstaDoc19

# Patient Consultation With Doctor Web App

# INTRODUCTION:
Our goal to make this project is, we want to connect doctors and patients instantly to deliver more effective solution while emergency situation like covid-19 pandemic. 
When the emergency situation occurs the patients or users get distracted or unable to take right medical prescription by the right doctors. Then the health issues started unexpectedly. 
To avoid physical contact and traveling to get right prescription, we just have designed a platform and an algorithm that will connect the doctors with the users or patients instantly.
We will use audio and video communication to better delivery of the problems of the patients.
We will also provide health related articles generated by doctors.

# GOAL:
We just want to connect doctors and patients in a single platform with an algorithm to utilize the functionality of medical services effectively even in the critical situations like covid-19 pandemic.
To deliver more effective communication and mutual understanding we have used audio and video communication system.
Even we have added the section where user can grab health related articles. 

# OBJECTIVES:
Our main objective to create this application is:
•	Utilize the digital technologies in medical field.
•	Connect patients to expert doctors.
•	Provide them the user-friendly interface and utilities like image sharing etc.
•	To deliver mutual understanding we have added audio and video communication.

# PROPOSED SOLUTION:
When the emergency situation occurs there the availability of doctors decreases.
So, to utilize the medical resources like doctors and their medicine kits, we want to design a platform where user and doctors can interact, and can transfer necessary medical prescriptions.

# SCOPE OF THIS PROJECT:
This kind of application will play an important role during critical medical situation.
In pandemic situation it will act like a bridge for doctors and patients.
Even after the pandemic, when everything will be ok it will continuously deliver service to the users or patients.
It will be deploy on cloud as well as on shared hosting.

# TYPES OF USERS:
There will be some kind of users as mentioned below:
1.	Patient users: they will come to our website or our app to get health details and medical prescription by doctors.
2.	Doctors: they will serve medical prescription to the patients.
3.	Admin: It will handle the load on the site or maintain the logging things and analysis stuff.

# TECHNOLOGIES:
#  Back-end:
1.	PHP (v 5.6): This language is used in the majority in our project. This will capture the user requests and query them with database.
2.	MySQL (v 8): This will contain all the useful and related data into database to fulfill our goal.
3.	Ajax and jQuery (v 3.5.1): This is used to handle user requests with the database without refreshing whole content of the site.
4.	JavaScript (v ES6):  For dynamic behavior of the project, we have used JavaScript in some places. It helps in capturing user events for any DOM element.
#Front-end:
1.	Bootstrap (v 4): For responsive layout design, we have used bootstrap. It has inbuilt classes for different usability.
2.	CSS (v 3): To change some properties of the HTML elements and display them differently, we have used CSS.
3.	HTML (v5): To render data in web page and display them with browser property, we have used HTML.
